SCENE 1: Hangings in Port Royal
[camera opens on a noose, East India Company flag, then shows people walking up to a row of gallows, seven at a time]
Officer: In order to effect a timely halt to deteriorating conditions, and to ensure the common good, a state of emergency is declared for these territories, by decree of Lord Cutler Beckett, duly appointed representative of His Majesty the King. By decree, according to martial law, the following statutes are temporarily amended: right to assembly, suspended. [shot of feet coming through gallows floor] Right to habeus corpus, suspended. [shot of feet coming through gallows floor] Right to legal counsel, suspended. [shot of feet coming through gallows floor] Right to verdict by a jury of peers, suspended. [shot of feet coming through gallows floor] All persons convicted of piracy, or aiding a person convicted of piracy, or associating with a person convicted of piracy, shall be sentenced to hang by the neck until dead.
Child [singing]: The king and his men, stole the queen from her bed, and bound her in her bones. The seas be ours, and by the powers, where we will, we’ll roam. [executioner places child on top of barrel so he reaches the noose]
Man [singing]: Yo, ho, all hands, hoist the colors high.
All [singing]: Heave ho, thieves and beggars, never shall we die.
Officer: Lord Beckett. They’ve started to sing, sir.
Beckett: Finally.
All [singing]: Yo ho, all together, hoist the colors high. Heave ho, thieves and beggars, never shall we die.
[coin drops]
SCENE 2: Welcome to Singapore
[camera opens on Elizabeth in a small boat paddling through the water below the walkways of Singapore]
Elizabeth [singing]: ...the bell has been raised from its watery grave; hear its sepulchral tone? A call to all, pay heed the squall, and turn your sails toward home!... yo ho, all together, hoist the colors high. Yo ho, thieves...
Tai Huang: ...and beggars, never say we die. A dangerous song to be singing, for anyone ignorant of its meaning. Particularly a woman, particularly a woman alone.
Barbossa: What makes you think she’s alone?
Tai Huang: You protect her?
Elizabeth [puts knife to Tai Huang’s neck]: And what makes you think I need protecting?
Barbossa: Your master’s expectin’ us. An unexpected death would cast a slight pall on our meeting.
[Elizabeth releases Tai Huang from her grip. British soldiers pass by on the path above and the group exits into a passageway below]
[Cuts to what looks like turtles going through the water below the pathway somewhere else in the town. Shells, now seen to be coconuts, lift out of water to reveal Pintel, Ragetti, Gibbs, Marty and Cotton underneath, breathing through bamboo straws]
[Cuts to shot of cartwheels on the pathway above]
[Cuts back down to them approaching a sewer grating]
Cotton’s parrot: Steady as she goes!
[Cuts back to Tia wheeling a cart onto the bridge above them as Jack the monkey turns a crank to play music]
[Cuts back to them as they start to saw through the grating]
Gibbs: All right.
[Cuts back to Elizabeth and Barbossa following Tai Huang and his men]
Elizabeth: Have you heard anything from Will?
Barbossa: I trust young Turner to acquire the charts, and you to remember your place in the presence of Capt. Sao Feng.
Elizabeth: Is he that terrifying?
Barbossa: He’s much like myself, but absent my merciful nature and sense of fair play.
[Cuts back to Gibbs & company at grating]
Gibbs: We’re through! Make ready.
[They arrive at the entrance to Sao Feng’s hideout and someone on the other side opens a slit in the door]
Tai Huang: Hoi. [Door opens and they enter]
[Cuts to Sao Feng’s hideout. Barbossa and Elizabeth give up their weapons to the guards. Elizabeth makes to move past Tai Huang, he holds up his hand to stop her]
Tai Huang: You think because she is a woman we would not suspect her of treachery?
Barbossa: Well, when you put it that way.
Tai Huang: Remove, please.
[Elizabeth removes her hat and outer coat to reveal a leather harness with several more guns and bombs on it, then pulls another large cannon out of her boot]
Tai Huang: Remove, please. [smiles slyly]
[Elizabeth also removes pants]
[Several shots as they make their way through the area to where Sao Feng is. Sao Feng turns around and Barbossa and Elizabeth bow]
Sao Feng: Captain Barbossa. Welcome to Singapore. [to one of his servants] More steam.
[She pulls a rope and it cuts to a shot of a man below pulling another rope to release more steam, then shows big fat guy and Gibbs & company. Ragetti sees fat man and attempts to leave, Gibbs grabs him]
Gibbs: None of that. If things don’t go the way we want them we’re the only chance they’ve got.
[then back to Sao Feng, Elizabeth and Barbossa]
Sao Feng: I understand you have a request to make of me.
Barbossa: More of a proposal to put to ye. I have a venture underway and happen to find myself in need of ship and a crew.
Sao Feng: This is an odd coincidence.
Elizabeth: Because you happen to have a ship a and crew you don’t need?
Sao Feng: No. Because, earlier this day, not far from here, a thief broke into my most revered uncle’s temple and tried to make off with these. [holds up the charts] The navigational charts. The route to the farthest gate. Wouldn’t it be amazing if this venture of yours took you to the world beyond this one?
Barbossa: It would strain credulity at that.
[Sao Feng motions to his men and they pull Will up out of a tub of hot water]
Sao Feng: [points to Will] This is the thief. Is his face familiar to you? [Elizabeth and Barbossa both shake their heads]
Sao Feng: Then I guess he has no further need for it. [makes to kill Will; Elizabeth gasps]
Sao Feng: So, you come into my city, and betray my hospitality.
Barbossa: Sao Feng, I assure you, I had no idea...
Sao Feng: That he would get caught?!? You intend to attempt a voyage to Davy Jones’ locker. When I cannot help but wonder, why?
[Barbossa tosses a piece of eight to Sao Feng who catches it]
Barbossa: The song has been sung. The time is upon us. We must convene the Brethren Court. As one of the nine pirate lords you must honor the call.
Sao Feng: More steam.
[lady pulls lever and steam doesn’t come immediately. cuts down to our guys below, then back up]
Sao Feng: More steam!
[cuts down below to Marty hitting the huge guy in the face with a shovel. pans over to Cotton pulling string to release more steam]
[cuts back to upper level]
Sao Feng: There’s a price on all our heads, it is true. Since it seems that the only way a pirate can turn a profit anymore is by betraying other pirates...
[cuts to Ragetti looking up through the floorboards underneath Elizabeth]
Ragetti: It’s Elizabeth.
[pans over to the others unrolling the bundle of weapons and taking the weapons]
Gibbs: Wait for the signal.
Barbossa [above]: ...the first Brethren Court gave us rule of the seas. That rule has been challenged by Lord Cutler Beckett.
[cuts back to upper level]
Sao Feng: Against the East India Trading Company, what value is the Brethren Court? What can any of us do?
Elizabeth: You can fight! [steps forward and one man grabs her shoulder and she shakes free of him] Get off me! You are Sao Feng, the pirate lord of Singapore!
[cuts to down blow and Pintel looks up through the floorboards just as the man that grabbed Elizabeth takes her spot that he looks up to. Pintel makes a disgusted face]
[cuts back to upper level]
Elizabeth: ...would you have that era come to an end on your watch? The most notorious pirates from around the world are uniting against our enemy, and yet you sit here, cowering in your bath water!
Sao Feng: Elizabeth Swann, there’s more to you than meets the eye, isn’t there? And the eye does not go wanting. But I cannot help but notice. You have failed to answer my question. What is it you seek in Davy Jones’ locker?
Will: Jack Sparrow. [girls giggle] He’s one of the pirate lords.
Sao Feng: The only reason I would want Jack Sparrow returned from the land of the dead... is so I can send him back myself!
Barbossa: Jack Sparrow holds one of the nine pieces of eight. He failed to pass it along to a successor before he died. So we must go and get him back.
[Sao Feng notices the tattoo on one of the men in front of him begin to drip off]
Sao Feng: So, you admit, you have deceived me. Weapons!
[all Sao Feng’s men draw their weapons]
[cuts to shot down below]
Gibbs: Weapons!
[cuts back to shot of Elizabeth and Barbossa]
Barbossa: Sao Feng I assure you, our intentions are strictly honorable.
[just then swords pop up through the floorboards and Elizabeth and Barbossa catch them]
Sao Feng: [puts his sword to man’s neck] Drop your weapons or I kill the man!
Barbossa: Kill him, he’s not our man.
Will: If he’s not with you, and he’s not with us...who’s he with?
[East India Trading Co. soldiers bust into the room and fighting erupts]
Elizabeth [as Will is fighting and gets himself detached from the pole that was behind his back]: Will!
[Will catches sword][they continue fighting through the city]
Soldier: Ready, aim, fire!
[Tia uses her cart to blow them up]
[eventually cuts to shot of Sao Feng pinning Will up against a wall, shows Mercer watching them]
Sao Feng: It is an odd coincidence that the East India Trading Co. finds me the day you show up in Singapore.
Will: It is coincidence only. [puts a knife to Sao Feng’s throat] If you want to make a deal with Beckett you need what I offer.
Sao Feng: You cross Barbossa, you’re willing to cross Jack Sparrow. Why should I expect any better?
Will: I need the Black Pearl to free my father. [takes knife away] You’re helping me to get it.
[cuts to Jack the monkey getting a firework and placing it on the railing of the walkway on top of a box]
Cotton’s parrot: Uh oh!
[Jack places a candle on the fuse to light it]
Cotton’s parrot: Fire in the hole!
[firework launches into shack full of fireworks which explodes]
Barbossa: Thank you, Jack!
Cotton’s parrot: Thank you, Jack!
[cuts to Barbossa, Elizabeth and Will walking up to one another on the docks]
Barbossa: You got the charts?
Will: And better yet, a ship and a crew.
Elizabeth: Where’s Sao Feng?
Will: He’ll cover our escape and meet us at Shipwreck Cove.
Tai Huang: This way, be quick.
[cuts to shot of Elizabeth walking up behind Tia on the boat they just acquired]
Elizabeth: There’s no place left for Sao Feng to cower. Do you think he will honor the call?
Tia Dalma: I cannot say. There is an evil on these seas that even the most staunch and bloodthirsty pirates have come to fear.
SCENE 3: Mercer Reports In
[shows the Flying Dutchman emerging from the water and completely destroying several pirate ships, then cuts to a piece of eight falling on the desk and Beckett picks it up]
Beckett: A piece of eight, nine of them you say?
Mercer: Our new friend in Singapore was very specific, nine pieces of eight.
Beckett: What’s the significance of that, I wonder?
Mercer: Does it matter? There’s nothing can hold against the armada, not with the Flying Dutchman at the lead.
Beckett: Nothing we know of. Did your friend happen to mention where the Brethren Court are meeting?
Mercer: He was mum on that, sir.
Beckett: Well then, he knows the value of information. Best keep this between ourselves. Don’t want anyone running off to Singapore, now do we? [camera moves over to Gov. Swann signing papers]
[Norrington enters through the door]
Beckett: Ahh, Admiral.
Norrington: You summoned me, Lord Beckett.
Beckett: Yes. Something for you there. Your new station deserves an old friend.
[Norrington opens the case to find his sword he got when he was promoted to commodore]
[cuts back over to Gov. Swann]
Gov. Swann: Not more requisition orders?
Assistant: No sir, executions.
Beckett: The Brethren know they face extinction. All that remains is for them to decide where they make their final stand.
SCENE 4: Over the Edge...
[camera opens on Jack the monkey, Pintel, and Ragetti, all covered in ice, as is the boat]
Pintel: No one said anything about cold.
Ragetti: There must be a good reason for our suffering.
Pintel: Why don’t that obeah woman bring back Jack, the same way she brought back Barbossa?
Tia Dalma: Because Barbossa was only dead. Jack Sparrow is taken, body and soul, to a place not of death, but punishment. The worst fate a person can bring upon himself. Stretching on forever. That’s what awaits at Davy Jones’ locker.
Ragetti: I knew there was good reason.
[pans across the ship showing one of the crew accidentally breaking off his toe, then finally coming to Will and Tai Huang looking at the charts]
Will: Nothing here is set. These can’t be as accurate as modern charts. Tai Huang: No, but it leads to more places.
Will: [reading from the charts] Over the edge and over again. Sunrise sets flash of green... Do you care to interpret, Captain Barbossa?
Barbossa: Ever gazed upon the green flash, Master Gibbs?
Gibbs: I reckon I seen my fair share. It happens on rare occasion. At the last glimpse of sunset, a green flash of light shoots up into the sky. Some go their whole lives without seeing it, some claim to have seen it that ain’t. Some say...
Pintel: It signals when a soul comes back to this world, from the dead! [Gibbs gives him a death stare] Sorry.
Barbossa: Trust me, young Master Turner, it’s not gettin’ to the land of the dead that’s the problem. It’s gettin’ back.
[cuts to overhead shot of them going between two huge walls of ice, then shows the ship disappearing into the darkness between them]
SCENE 5: The Captain of the Flying Dutchman
Beckett: Bloody hell, there’s nothing left.
Mercer: Jones is a loose cannon, sir.
Beckett: Fetch the chest.
Mercer: And the Governor...he’s been asking questions about the heart.
Beckett: Does he know?
[they look at each other]
Beckett: Then perhaps his usefulness has run its course.
[shows soldiers and the Governor in boats rowing over to the Flying Dutchman]
[cuts to Davy mournfully playing his organ with only two of his tentacles. He picks up his locket which is playing the music and a single tear runs down his cheek. He picks it up with a tentacle, looks at it, and then becomes angry]
[cuts to soldiers rushing up onto the Flying Dutchman. Davy’s crew comes out to meet them, then Norrington emerges as well]
Norrington: [to Murtogg and Mullroy] Steady, men.
[Davy enters]
Davy Jones: Go! All of you! And take that infernal thing with you! I will not have it on my ship!
[Beckett and Mercer emerge]
Beckett: I’m sorry to hear that, because I will. Because it seems to be the only way to ensure that this ship do as directed by the company. We need prisoners to interrogate, which tends to work best when they’re alive.
Davy Jones: The Dutchman sails as its captain commands.
Beckett: And its captain is to sail it as commanded. I thought you would have learned that when I ordered you to kill your pet. This is no longer your world, Jones. The immaterial has become...immaterial. Admiral.
[Norrington and the men with the chest walk off towards Davy’s cabin. Cuts to shot of five men pointing their guns at Davy’s heart in the open chest]
Officer: Charge bayonets!
SCENE 6: At World’s End
[Shows the Hai Peng sailing through perfectly calm water with stars all around in the sky and water (looks like they are sailing in the night sky)]
Will [comes up behind Elizabeth who is looking out over the water]: How long do we continue not talking?
Elizabeth: Once we rescue Jack everything will be fine.
Will: When we rescue Jack?
[Elizabeth walks off; Tia walks up behind Will]
Tia Dalma: For what we want most, there is a cost must be paid in the end.
Will: Barbossa! Ahead!
Barbossa: Aye, we’re good and lost now.
Elizabeth: Lost?
Barbossa: For certain you have to be lost to find the places can’t be found. Elseways, everyone would know where it was.
Gibbs: We’re gaining speed!
Barbossa: Aye.
Will: To stations! All hands, to stations! Hard to port, gather way!
Barbossa: Nay! Belay that! Let her run straight and true!
Pintel: Blimey!
[cuts to shot of HUGE falls at the end of the world then back to on boat]
Elizabeth: You’ve doomed us all!
Barbossa: Don’t be so unkind. You may not survive to pass this way again and these be the last friendly words you’ll hear.
Will: Tie her off!
Tia Dalma [mumbles]: Malfaiteur en Tombeau, Crocher l’Esplanade, Dans l’Fond d’l’eau! (French meaning something like: fish the criminal out of his tomb, the walkway melts in the water) [throws crab claws]
Elizabeth: Hard to port!
Will: Hold on!
Barbossa: Ha ha ha ha!
[shows the ship turning and going off the waterfall backwards]
SCENE 8: Jack’s Entrance/Davy Jones’ Locker
Voices [on black screen, in background]: Strike your colors, you bloomin’ cockroaches...dead men tell no tales.
[all of a sudden opens on completely white screen. Jack’s nose appears onscreen and stiff’s its way along the table and looks at a peanut, then shows Jack replica putting on a napkin and preparing to eat the peanut with a fork. The real Jack shoots him and takes the peanut]
Jack: My peanut. All hands slackened braces!
Jack replica: Aye captain. Slackened braces!
Jack replica: Step lively! With a will!
Jack replica: Help.
Jack replica: Man the yards, you filthy toads!
[Jack replica lays an egg, then clucks like chicken]
Jack replicas x6 [on top of the mast]: Ho! Ho!
Jack replica: Haul the sheets, sensibly boys!
Jack replica: Aye captain.
Jack: Mr. Sparrow.
Jack replica: Aye captain.
Jack: What say you about the condition of this tack line?
Jack replica: It be proper to my eye, sir.
Jack: Proper? It is neither proper nor suitable, sir, it is neither acceptable nor adequate. It is in obvious fact an abomination.
Jack replica: Beggin’ your pardon, sir, but perhaps if you gave the men another chance.
Jack: Shall I? [stabs replica] That sort of thinking got us into this mess. Gentlemen, we have lost speed and therefore time, precious time, which cannot be regained once lost. Do you understand?
Jack replicas: Aye aye captain!
Jack: It will all have to be redone, all of it! And let that serve as a lesson to the lot of you! [camera moves to reveal Jack talking to only himself] Doldrums sir, has the whole crew on edge. I have absolutely no sympathy for any of you fecculant maggots. And no patience to pretend otherwise. Gentlemen, I wash my hands of this weirdness! [Jack grabs rope and jumps off the ship] No wind, of course there’s no bloody wind. On my soul I do swear, not a gust, a whisper, a tiny miniature lick. Yes, I know, but why would he do that? Well, because he’s a lummox, isn’t he? And we’ll have a magnificent garden party and you’re not invited. [giggles] [picks up rock] A rock. [throws it] [he turns around to see the rock on the ground right behind him again] Shoo. [picks up rock, licks it, and throws it and it turns into crab after he turns away] Now we’re being followed by rocks, never had that before. Oh, a rope! [pulls it]
[cuts to shot of Jack trying to pull the Pearl across the salt flats, then he falls over backwards. Then cuts to a whole bunch of rocks turning into a lot of crabs, then back to Jack with a shadow of the Pearl going over him. He stands up and looks a it dumbfounded, then begins to run after it]
[cuts away to shot of crew washing up on the beach]
Gibbs: This truly is a Godforsaken place.
Elizabeth: I don’t see Jack, I don’t see anyone.
Barbossa: He’s here. Davy Jones never once gave up that what he took.
Will: It doesn’t matter, we’re trapped here by your doing, no different than Jack.
Tia Dalma [while petting crab]: Witty Jack is closer than you think.
[Shows Jack on top of the Black Pearl’s mast coming over the top of a sand dune and down into the water]
Tai Huang: Impossible.
Ragetti: Boat.
Gibbs: Slap me thrice and hand me to me momma, it’s Jack!
[shows Jack walking up into beach towards them]
Pintel: It’s the captain!
Gibbs: A sight for sore eyes! Jack!
Jack: Mr Gibbs!
Gibbs: Aye, captain.
Jack: I thought so. I expect you can account for your actions, then?
Gibbs: Sir?
Jack: There has been a perpetual and virulent lack of discipline aboard my vessel! Why is that, sir?
Gibbs: You’re in Davy Jones’ locker, Captain.
Jack: I know that. I know where I am, and don’t think I don’t.
Barbossa: Jack Sparrow.
Jack: Ah, Hector. It’s been too long, hasn’t it?
Barbossa: Aye, Isla de Muerta, remember? You shot me.
Jack: No I didn’t. Ah, Tia Dalma, out and about, eh? You lend an agreeable sense of the macabre to any delirium.
Will: He thinks we’re a hallucination.
Jack: William, tell me something. Have you come because you need my help to rescue a certain distressing damsel? Or rather a damsel in distress? Either one.
Will No.
Jack: Then you wouldn’t be here. So you can’t be here. Q.E.D. you’re not really here.
Elizabeth: Jack, this is real, we’re here.
[Jack looks at her as he remembers what she did to him and scuttles back over to Gibbs]
Jack: The locker, you say?
Gibbs: Aye.
Elizabeth: We’ve come to rescue you.
Jack: Have you, now? That’s very kind of you. But seeing as I possess a ship and you don’t, it seems as though you’re the ones in need of rescuing and I’m not sure as I’m in the mood.
Barbossa: I see my ship [points to the Pearl] right there.
Jack: Can’t spot it, must be a tiny little thing hiding somewhere behind the Pearl.
Will: Jack. Cutler Beckett has the heart of Davy Jones. He controls the Flying Dutchman.
Elizabeth: He’s taking over the seas.
Tia Dalma: The song has already been sung. The Brethren Court is called.
Jack: Leave you people alone for a minute and look what’s happened, everything’s gone to pot.
Gibbs: Aye, Jack. The world needs you back something fierce.
Will: And you need a crew.
Jack: Why should I sail with any of you? Four of you have tried to kill me in the past, one of you succeeded.
[Will looks surprisedly at Elizabeth]
Jack: Oh, she’s not told you? You’ll have loads to talk about while you’re here. [turns to Tia] As for you...
Tia Dalma: Now, don’t tell me you didn’t enjoy it, at the time.
Jack: All right, fair enough, you’re in. [to Ragetti] Don’t need you, you scare me. Gibbs, you can come. Marty. Cotton. Cotton’s parrot, I’m a little iffy, but at least I’ll have someone to talk to. [to Tai Huang] Who are you?
Tai Huang: Tai Huang. These are my men.
Jack: Where do your allegiances lie?
Tai Huang: With the highest bidder.
Jack: I have a ship.
Tai Huang: That makes you the highest bidder.
Jack: Good man. Weigh anchor, all hands, prepare to make sail.
[Jack looks at compass which is spinning wildly]
Barbossa [tapping charts]: Jack, which way ya goin’, Jack?
SCENE 9: The Voyage Back
Barbossa: Trim that sail!
Jack: Trim that sail!
Barbossa: Slack windward brace and sheets!
Jack: Slack windward brace and sheets!
Barbossa: Haul that pallet line!
Jack: Haul that pallet line!
Barbossa: What ARE you doing?
Jack: What are YOU doing?
Barbossa: No, what ARE you doing?
Jack: What are YOU doing?
Barbossa: No, what ARE you doing?
Jack: What are YOU doing? Captain gives orders on the ship!
Barbossa: The captain of this ship is giving orders!
Jack: My ship, makes me captain.
Barbossa: They be my charts.
Jack: That makes you...chart man!
Pintel: Stow it! The both of you! That’s an order! Understand?!? Sorry. I just thought with the captain issue being in doubt, I’d throw my name in for consideration, sorry.
[Jack and Barbossa shuffle off up the stairs]
Ragetti: I’d vote for ya.
Pintel: Yeah?
[Barbossa pulls out his large spyglass and is looking out towards the front of the boat and Jack pulls his out too but it is too small so he gives up. cuts down below to Will and Elizabeth]
Will: You left Jack to the Kraken?
Elizabeth: He’s rescued now, it’s done with. Will, I had no choice.
Will: You chose not to tell me.
Elizabeth: I couldn’t. It wasn’t your burden to bear.
Will: But I did bear it, didn’t I? I just didn’t know what it was. I thought...
Elizabeth: You thought I loved him.
[she tries to leave and Will grabs her]
Will: If you make your choices alone, how can I trust you?
Elizabeth: You can’t.
[cuts to Pintel and Ragetti sitting, fishing on the front of the boat. Ragetti sees something in the water and yells and drops the fishing pole. They look over the side and see bodies floating within the water below]
Pintel: Eerie, that’s down right macabre.
Ragetti: Wonder what would happen if you dropped a cannon ball on one of ‘em.
[cuts to them carrying cannon balls and laughing, Tia gives them a look and they drop the cannon balls]
Pintel: Be disrespectful, it would.
Tia Dalma: They should be in the care of Davy Jones. That was the duty him was charged with by the goddess, Calypso. To ferry them who dies at sea to the other side. And every ten years he could come ashore to be with she who love him, truly. But the man has become a monster.
Ragetti: So he wasn’t always...tentacly?
Tia Dalma: No, him was a man...once.
Ragetti: Now it’s boats coming.
[others come to look at the boats coming, Gibbs begins loading a gun and Will stops him]
Will: They’re not a threat to us, am I right?
Tia Dalma: We are nothing but ghosts to them.
Barbossa: Is best just let them be.
Elizabeth: It’s my father, we’ve made it back. Father here, look here!
Jack: Elizabeth, we’re not back.
Elizabeth: Father!
Gov. Swann: Elizabeth, are you dead?
Elizabeth: No, no.
Gov. Swann: I think I am.
Elizabeth: No, you can’t be!
Gov. Swann: There was this chest, you see. And a heart. At the time it seemed so important.
Elizabeth: Come aboard!
Gov. Swann: I learned that if you stab the heart, yours must take its place. Sail the seas for eternity. The Dutchman must always have a captain. Silly thing to die for.
Elizabeth: Someone cast a line!
[Marty gives Elizabeth a line]
Tia Dalma [to Will]: A touch of destiny.
Elizabeth: Take the line!
Gov. Swann: Elizabeth, I’m so proud of you.
Elizabeth: Father, the line, take the line! [runs screaming toward stern of ship]
Tia Dalma: She must not leave the ship! [Will grabs Elizabeth]
Elizabeth: Father, come back with us! I won’t leave you!
Will [as he grabs her]: Elizabeth.
Gov. Swann: I’ll give your love to your mother, shall I?
Will [holding Elizabeth]: Is there a way?
Tia Dalma [shaking her head]: Him at peace.
[cuts to crew on deck under blazing sun]
Pintel: Why is all but the rum gone?
Gibbs: Rum’s gone too.
Tia Dalma: If we cannot escape these doldrums by nightfall, I fear we will sail trackless seas, doomed to roam the reach between worlds... forever.
Gibbs: With no water, forever seems to be arriving a mite too soon.
Will: [looks at Barbossa] Why doesn’t he do something?
Ragetti [to monkey]: Me eye! Give it back!
Gibbs: There’s no sense to it.
Will: And the green flash happens at sunset, not sunrise.
Gibbs: OVER THE EDGE... it’s drivin’ me over the bloomin’ edge. Sunrises don’t set.
[cuts to Jack]
Jack: UP IS DOWN. Well that’s just maddeningly unhelpful. Why are these things never clear?
[small Jacks emerge from Jack’s beard]
Small Jack: Clear as mud, Jackie. Stab the heart.
Small Jack: Don’t stab the heart.
Jack: Come again?
Small Jack: The Dutchman must have a captain.
Jack: Well that’s more than less than unhelpful.
Small Jack: Sail the seas forever.
Jack: I love the sea.
Small Jack: What about port?
Jack: I prefer rum. Rum’s good.
Small Jack: Making port.
Small Jack: Where we can get rum, and salty wenches, once every ten years.
Small Jack: What did he say?
Jack: Once every ten years.
Small Jack: Ten years years is a long time, mate.
Small Jack: But eternity is longer still.
Jack: Even longer given the deficit of rum.
Small Jack: And how will you be spending it? Dead? Or not?
Small Jack: The immortal Captain Sparrow.
Jack: Oh, I like that.
Small Jack: Come sunset it won’t matter.
Jack: Not sunset, sundown... and rise. [turns picture of boat upside down on chart] UP! Oh, what’s that? [runs over to side of boat] What’s that? I don’t know, what IS that? What do you think?
Elizabeth: Where?
Jack: There!
Elizabeth: What is it?
[Jack runs back and forth from side to side of the Pearl with everyone following him. Ragetti’s eye rolls around on a table, Barbossa pops it in his mouth, then sticks it back in the socket.]
Pintel: He’s rockin’ the ship!
Gibbs: We’re rockin’ the ship! Barbossa [looks at upside down ship on chart]: Aye, he’s onto it.
 Pintel: He’s rockin’ the ship!
Ragetti: We’ll tie each other to the mast, upside down, so when the boat flips, we’ll be the right way up.
Barbossa: Time it with the swell. [goes below] Loose the cannons, you stinking bilge rats! Unstow the cargo, let it shift! [Slowly, the Pearl turns upside down in the water]
Jack: Now up is down.
[They all go under the water. As the sun sets, a green flash is seen and the boat pops back into our world.]
Pintel: This was your idea.
Gibbs: Blessed sweet westerlies, we’re back!
Elizabeth: It’s the sunrise.
[Jack, Will, Elizabeth, and Barbossa all pull guns on each other; Jack the monkey points a gun at Cotton’s parrot]
Cotton’s parrot: Parlay?
Pintel: We need our pistols, get untied, hurry.
[They all laugh and lower their guns, then point them up again.]
Barbossa: All right, then. The Brethren Court’s a-gatherin’ at Shipwreck Cove. And Jack, you and I are a-goin’, and there’ll be no arguin’ that point.
Jack: I is arguin’ the point. If there’s pirates a-gatherin’, I’m pointing my ship the other way.
Elizabeth: The pirates are gathering to fight Beckett, and you’re a pirate.
Will: Fight or not, you’re not running, Jack.
Barbossa: If we don’t stand together, they’ll hunt us down one by one, till there be none left, but you.
Jack: I quite like the sound of that. Captain Jack Sparrow, the last pirate.
Barbossa: Aye, and you’ll be fightin’ Jones alone. And how does that figure into your plan?
Jack: I’m still working on that. But I’ll not be going back to the locker, mate, count on that.
[fires his gun at Barbossa but it doesn’t go off. They all fire, but guns don’t work.]
Gibbs: Wet powder.
Pintel: Wait! We can still use them as clubs. [Ragetti hits him on the head with his pistol] Ow!
Ragetti: Sorry. Effective, though.
[Cuts to pirates gathered around Will, looking at chart]
Will: There’s a freshwater spring on this island. We can resupply there, and get back to shooting each other later.
Jack: You can lead the shore party, and I’ll stay with my ship.
Barbossa: I’ll not be leaving my ship in your command.
Will: Why don’t you both go ashore and leave the ship in my command... temporarily.
[Barbossa is seen looking at the island through his spyglass. Jack emerges with a spyglass so long he can’t even hold it straight.]
Cotton’s parrot: Mind the boat. [Party goes ashore, where they see a huge grey dead Kraken washed up on the beach.]
Pintel: Crimety!
Ragetti: Hods bodkins! [as Pintel is poking the Kraken with a stick] Careful, careful!
Pintel: You stupid fish!
Ragetti: Actually, it’s a cephalopod.
Pintel: Serves you right! [their conversation continues in background] A lot of people would pay a shilling to see this, and another shilling for a sketchbook... ”Pintel and Ragetti, Kraken slayers”! ...serve up a slice as a souvenir...
Barbossa: Still thinking of running, Jack? Think you can outrun the world? You know, the problem with being the last of anything, is by and by, there be none left at all.
Jack: Sometimes, things come back, mate. We’re living proof, you and me.
Barbossa: Aye, but that’s a gamble of long odds, ain’t it? There’s never a guarantee of coming back, but passing on, that’s dead certain.
Jack: Summoning the Brethren Court, then, is it?
Barbossa: It’s our only hope, lad.
Jack: That’s a sad commentary in and of itself.
Barbossa: The world used to be a bigger place.
Jack: The world’s still the same. There’s just less in it.
[cuts to them finding the spring with a dead body in it. Barbossa tastes the water and spits it out.]
Barbossa: Poisoned. Fouled by the body.
Pintel [turns body over]: Hey, I know him! He was in Singapore!
Cotton’s parrot: Singapore!
Marty: Captain!
Ragetti: Oy, we’ve got company! [Sao Feng’s boat is seen alongside the Pearl, and Tai Huang’s men turn their guns on Jack]
Jack: [points to Barbossa] He’s the captain.
[cut to deck of Pearl]
Barbossa: Sao Feng, you showing up here, ‘tis truly a remarkable coincidence.
Sao Feng: Jack Sparrow, you paid me great insult once.
Jack: That doesn’t sound like me. [Sao Feng punches Jack in the nose.] Shall we just call it square, then?
Will [to Tai Huang’s men]: Release her. She’s not part of the bargain.
Barbossa: And what bargain be that?
Sao Feng: You heard Captain Turner. Release her.
Jack: Captain Turner?
Gibbs: Aye, the profidious rotter led a mutiny against us.
Will: I need the Pearl to free my father. That’s the only reason I came on this voyage.
Elizabeth: Why didn’t you tell me you were planning this?
Will: It was my burden to bear.
Jack: He needs the Pearl! Captain Turner needs the Pearl! And you felt guilty. And you and your Brethren Court! Did no one come to save me just because they missed me? [Gibbs rolls his eyes, then Marty, Pintel, Ragetti, Cotton, and Jack the monkey slowly raise their hands.] I’m standing over there with them.
Sao Feng: I’m sorry, Jack, but there’s an old friend who wants to see you first.
Jack: I’m not certain I can survive any more visits from old friends.
Sao Feng: Here’s your chance to find out.
[cuts to Jack and Beckett in Beckett’s office]
Beckett: It’s curious. Your friends appear to be quite desperate, Jack. Perhaps they no longer believe that a gathering of squabbling pirates is enough to take down the Flying Dutchman. And so despair leads to betrayal. But you and I are no strangers to betrayal, are we, Jack? [Jack is snooping around in Beckett’s office.] It isn’t here, Jack.
Jack: What? What isn’t?
Beckett: The heart of Davy Jones. It’s safely aboard the Dutchman, and so unavailable for use as leverage to satisfy your debt to the good Captain.
Jack: By my reckoning, that account has been settled.
Beckett: By your death? And yet, here you are.
Jack: Close your eyes and pretend it’s all a bad dream. That’s how I get by.
Beckett: And if Davy Jones were to learn of your survival?
[cuts outside to Mercer and Sao Feng and Will.]
Sao Feng: My men are crew enough.
Mercer: Company ship, company crew.
Will: You agreed, the Black Pearl was to be mine.
Sao Feng: And so it was. [crewman punches Will in the stomach and drags him off]
[cuts back to Beckett’s office]
Beckett: Perhaps you would consider an alternate arrangement, one that requires absolutely nothing from you but information.
Jack: Regarding the Brethren Court, no doubt? In exchange for fair compensation, square my debt with Jones, guarantee my freedom?
Beckett: Of course. It’s just good business.
Jack: Were I in a divulgatory mood, what then might I divulge?
Beckett: Everything. Where are they meeting? Who are the pirate lords? What is the purpose of the nine pieces of eight?
[cut to deck of Black Pearl]
Sao Feng: Beckett agreed the Black Pearl was to be mine.
Mercer: Lord Beckett’s not going to give up the only ship that can outrun the Dutchman, now is he? [Mercer exits]
Barbossa: It’s a shame they’re not bound to honor the Code of the Brethren, ain’t it? Because honor’s a hard thing to come by nowadays.
Sao Feng: There’s no honor in remaining with the losing side. Leaving it for the winning side, that’s just good business.
Barbossa: The losing side, you say?
Sao Feng: They have the Dutchman, now the Pearl. And what do the Brethren have?
Barbossa: We have Calypso.
Sao Feng: Hmph, Calypso! An old legend.
Barbossa: No, the goddess herself, bound in human form. I intend to release her, but for that I need the Court, all the Court. [grabs Sao Feng’s necklace]
[cut back to Beckett’s office]
Jack: You can keep Barbossa, the belligerent homunculus and his friend with the wooden eye both, and Turner... especially Turner. The rest go with me aboard the Pearl, and I will lead you to Shipwreck Cove, where I will hand you the pirates and you will NOT hand me to Jones. Bloody fair deal, don’t you think?
Beckett: And what becomes of Miss Swann?
Jack: What interest is she to you?
[deck of Pearl]
Sao Feng: What are you proposing, Captain?
Barbossa: What be accepted, Captain?
Sao Feng: The girl.
Elizabeth: What?
[Beckett’s office]
Beckett: Jack! I’ve just recalled, I have this wonderful compass which points to whatever I want. So for what do I need you?
[deck of Pearl]
Will: Elizabeth is not part of any bargain!
Barbossa: Out of the question.
Sao Feng: It was not a question.
[Beckett’s office]
Jack: It points to what you want most, and that’s not the Brethren Court, is it?
Beckett: Then what is?
Jack: Me. Dead.
[Pearl]
Elizabeth: Done.
Will: What? Not done!
Elizabeth: You got us into this mess! If this is what frees us, then done!
[Beckett’s office]
Beckett: Although if I kill you, then I can use the compass to find... Shipwreck Cove, was it? Cut out the middleman, as it were.
[Pearl]
Will: Elizabeth! They’re pirates!
Elizabeth: I’ve had more than enough experience dealing with pirates!
[shoves Will]
Barbossa: So we have an accord?
[Beckett’s office]
Jack: With me killed, you’d arrive at Shipwreck Cove, find its stronghold nigh impregnable, able to withstand blockade for years, and then you’d wish, “Oh, if only there were someone I had not killed inside to assure that the pirates then come outside...”
Beckett: And you can accomplish all this, can you?
Jack: You may kill me, but you may never insult me. Who am I? [Beckett flounders] I’m Captain Jack Sparrow! [ship is blasted by a cannonball. Jack grabs Beckett’s hand and shakes it.] Done!
[Jack runs out on deck and loads a cannon with a rope tied around the cannonball.]
Beckett: You’re mad!
Jack: Thank goodness for that, because if I wasn’t, this would probably never work. [Fires cannon, which hits mast and vaults Jack up and onto the statues at the back of the Black Pearl.]
Jack: And that was without a single drop of rum. [looks at Will] Send this pestilent traitorous cowhearted yeasty codpiece to the brig.
[cut back to deck of Endeavour]
Officer: Which ship do we follow?
Beckett: Signal the Dutchman to track down Sao Feng. We follow the Pearl. How soon can we have the ship ready to pursue? [mast cracks and falls over]
Officer: Do you think he plans it all out, or just makes it up as he goes along? _________________
 For certain you have to be lost to find a place as can't be found. Elseways everyone would know where it was. NOW... BRING ME THAT HORIZON...
Ostatnio zmieniony przez Anajulia dnia Sob 18:41, 18 Kwi 2009, w całości zmieniany 7 razy Powrót do góry Zobacz profil autora Wyślij prywatną wiadomość Wyślij email Numer Gadu-Gadu Moja generacja
 Anajulia Kapitan
 Dołączył: 28 Gru 2005 Posty: 4438 Przeczytał: 0 tematów
Ostrzeżeń: 0/3 Skąd: z Drogi Płeć: piratka PostWysłany: Sob 14:35, 18 Kwi 2009 Temat postu: Odpowiedz z cytatem SCENE 10: Sao Feng’s Successor
[camera opens on Sao Feng in his cabin, talking to two ladies in Chinese and Elizabeth is standing over by a pole dressed up]
Sao Feng: By this time tomorrow we will arrive at Shipwreck Cove, and you will be free. Calypso.
Elizabeth: Excuse me?
Sao Feng: Not the name you fancy, I imagine, out of the many that you have. But it is what we call you.
Elizabeth: We being who?
Sao Feng: You confirm it.
Elizabeth: Confirm what? You’ve told me nothing.
Sao Feng: The Brethren Court, not I, the first Brethren Court, whose position I would have opposed, bound you to human form, so the rule of the seas would belong to men and not...
Elizabeth: ...me.
Sao Feng: But one such as you should never be anything less that what you are.
Elizabeth: Pretty speech from a captor. But words whispered through prison bars lose their charm.
Sao Feng: Can I be blamed for my efforts? All men are drawn to the sea, perilous though it may be.
Elizabeth: And some men offer desire as justification for their crimes.
Sao Feng: I offer simply my desire.
Elizabeth: And in return?
Sao Feng: I would have your gifts, should you choose to give them.
Elizabeth: And if I should choose not?
Sao Feng: Then I will take your fury!
[grabs Elizabeth and kisses her, she shoves him away and a cannonball bursts through the side of the ship, sending splintered wood flying. A large piece of wood skewers Sao Feng]
Elizabeth: Sao Feng!
Sao Feng: Here... please. With all nine pieces of eight, you will be free. Take it! You are captain now. Go in my place to Shipwreck Cove.
Elizabeth: Me?
Tai Huang: Captain the ship is taken we cannot...
Sao Feng: Forgive me, Calypso.
[Sao Feng dies]
Tai Huang: What did he tell you?
Elizabeth: He made me captain.
[Tai Huang turns and runs out followed by Elizabeth. Outside they are grabbed by two guards]
Tai Huang: You are not my captain.
Norrington [from below them]: Elizabeth?
Elizabeth: James!
[she shakes free of guard and goes down to Norrington who hugs her]
Norrington: Thank God you’re alive! Your father will be overjoyed to know you’re safe.
Elizabeth: My father’s dead.
Norrington: No, that can’t be true, he returned to England.
Elizabeth: Did Lord Beckett tell you that?
Davy Jones: Who among you do you name as captain?
Tai Huang: Captain? Her!
[Tai Huang and rest of crew point to Elizabeth and Davy gets surprised look on his face]
Davy Jones: Captain?
Norrington: Tow the ship. Put the prisoners in the brig, and the captain shall have my quarters.
Elizabeth: Thank you, but I prefer to remain with my crew.
Norrington: Elizabeth, I swear I did not know.
Elizabeth: Know what? Which side you chose? [steps back to her men] Well now you do.
[cuts down to the brig of the Flying Dutchman]
Elizabeth: Bootstrap?
[Bo’sun laughs and walks away]
Elizabeth: Bootstrap? Bill Turner?
[Koleniko laughs and walks away]
Bootstrap: Bootstrap. You know my name? [emerges from wall]
Elizabeth: Yes, I know your son. Will Turner.
Bootstrap: William. [laughs] He made it, he’s alive! And now he sends you to tell me that he’s coming to get me. [laughs] Godspoons! He’s on his way.
Elizabeth: Yes, Will is alive. And he wants to help you.
Bootstrap: He can’t help me, he won’t come.
Elizabeth: But you’re his father.
Bootstrap: I know you, he spoke of you. He can’t come because of you.
Elizabeth: Me?
Bootstrap: You’re Elizabeth.
Elizabeth: Yes, I’m Elizabeth.
Bootstrap: If Jones be slain, he who slays him must take his place. Captain forever. The Dutchman must always have a captain. If he saves me, he loses you.
Elizabeth: I see.
Bootstrap: He won’t pick me. I wouldn’t pick me. Tell him not to come. Tell him to stay away. It’s too late. I’m already a part of the ship.
Elizabeth: Bootstrap.
Bootstrap: You know my name!
Elizabeth [looking confused]: Yes, I know your son.
Bootstrap: William! He’s coming, wait and see, he promised.
SCENE 11: The Bread Crumb Trail
[men seen hoisting barrel with dead body tied to it onto deck of the Endeavour. Beckett breaks open bottle to pull out a piece of parchment with an East India Trading Co. symbol on it]
Officer: Sir?
Beckett: A bread crumb trail, and we’re meant to follow.
Officer: A betrayer among them? Or a trap?
Beckett: A gambit by a skilled opponent. Adjust course, Leftenant.
Officer: Sir?
Beckett: We can only hope to reach our destination before they run out of bodies.
[cuts to Will tying a body to a barrel at the bow of the Black Pearl]
Jack: Bravo, you escaped the brig even quicker than I expected. William, do you notice something? Or rather do you notice something that is not there to be noted?
Will: You haven’t raised an alarm.
Jack: Odd, isn’t it? But not as odd as this. Come up with this all by your lonesome, did you?
Will: I said to myself, think like Jack.
Jack: And this is what you’ve arrived at? Lead Beckett to Shipwreck Cove so as to gain his trust, accomplish your own ends? It’s like you don’t know me at all, mate. And how does your dearly beloved feel about this? [Will hesitates] Ah, you’ve not seen fit to trust her with it.
Will: I’m losing her Jack. Every step I take for my father is a step away from Elizabeth.
Jack: Mate, if you choose to lock your heart away, you’ll lose it for certain. If I may lend a machete to your intellectual thicket—avoid the choice altogether. Change the facts. Let someone else dispatch Jones.
Will: Who? [hesitates] You?
Jack: Death has a curious way or reshuffling one’s priorities. I’ll slip aboard the Dutchman, find the heart, stab the beating thing. Your father goes free, and you’re free to be with your charming murderess.
Will: And you’re willing to carve out your heart and bind yourself to the Dutchman, forever.
Jack: No mate, I’m free forever. Free to sail the seas beyond the edges of the map, free from death itself.
Will: You’ve got to do the job though, Jack. You have to ferry souls to the next world. Or end up just like Jones. [strokes his chin]
Jack: I don’t have the face for tentacles. But immortal has to count for something, eh? Oh!
[gives Will the compass]
Will: What’s this for?
Jack: Think like me, it’ll come to you. [Exhales puff of strong rummy breath into Will’s face and Will falls overboard. Jack cuts barrel with body on it loose and pushes it overboard too.] My regards to Davy Jones!
Will: I hate him.
SCENE 12: The Escape
[cut to brig of Flying Dutchman, where Norrington is unlocking the door.]
Norrington [to Elizabeth]: Come with me. [she doesn’t move] Quickly! [she nods to crew and they exit]
Elizabeth: What are you doing?
Norrington: Choosing a side. [Elizabeth exits cell. Bootstrap sees empty cell and looks around.] Do not go to Shipwreck Cove. Beckett knows of the meeting of the Brethren. I fear there may be a traitor among them.
Elizabeth: It’s too late to earn my forgiveness.
Norrington: I had nothing to do with your father’s death. That doesn’t absolve me of my other sins.
Elizabeth: Come with us. James, come with me.
[enter Bootstrap]
Bootstrap: Who goes there?
Norrington [to Elizabeth]: Go. I will follow.
Elizabeth: You’re lying.
Norrington: Our destinies have been entwined, Elizabeth... but never joined. [kisses her] Go! Now! [to Bootstrap] Back to your station, sailor.
Bootstrap: No one leaves the ship.
Norrington: Stand down. That’s an order!
Bootstrap: That’s an order. That’s an order. Part of the crew, part of the ship. Part of the crew, part of the ship.
Norrington: Steady, man!
Bootstrap: Part of the crew, part of the ship. All hands, prisoner escape!
Norrington: Belay that!
[Norrington shoots the line between the ships and as he is turning back around Bootstrap spears him, then cuts down to water where Elizabeth is]
Elizabeth: James! James! No!
[cuts back up to Dutchman]
Clanker: Admiral’s dead?
Maccus: To the captain’s cabin!
Davy Jones: James Norrington, do you fear death?
[Norrington stabs Davy]
Davy Jones: I take that as a no. [pulls sword out of self] Nice sword. [walks off]
[shows crew killing soldiers as Davy walks into his cabin]
Mercer: The Dutchman is under my command.
Davy Jones: For now. [walks off]
SCENE 13: Calypso Revealed
[opens on deck of Black Pearl]
Gibbs: Look alive, and keep a weather eye! Not for naught it’s called Shipwreck Island, where lies Shipwreck Cove and the town of Shipwreck.
Pintel: You heard him. Step lively!
Jack: For all that pirates are clever cobs, we are an unimaginative lot when it comes to naming things.
Gibbs: Aye.
Jack: I once sailed with a geezer lost both of his arms and part of his eye.
Gibbs: And what’d you call him?
Jack: Larry.
[cuts to Barbossa and Tia at front of boat]
Barbossa: I don’t reneg on a bargain once struck. But we agreed on ends only, the means are mine to decide.
Tia: Caution, Barbossa. Do not forget it was by my power you return from the dead, or what it means should you fail me.
Barbossa: Don’t forget why you had to bring me back, and why I could not leave Jack to his well deserved fate. It took nine pirate lords to bind you, Calypso. And it’ll take no less than nine to set ye free. Masters Pintel and Ragetti—take this fishwife to the brig.
Pintel: Right this way, Mrs. Fish.
[they are seen going down stairs from front of boat. Cuts to Will and Beckett having tea in Beckett’s office. Enter Davy]
Davy Jones: I cannot be summoned like some mongrel pup.
Beckett: Apparently you can. I believe you know each other.
Davy Jones: [laughs] Come to join my crew again, Master Turner?
Will: Not yours, his. Jack Sparrow sends his regards.
Davy Jones: Sparrow?
Will: You’ve not told him? We rescued Jack from the locker along with the Black Pearl.
Davy Jones: What else have you not told me?!?
Beckett: There is an issue far more troublesome. I believe you are familiar with a person called Calypso.
Davy Jones: Not a person. A heathen god. One who delights in cursing men with their wildest dreams and then revealing them to be hollow and naught but ash. The world is well rid of her.
Will: Not quite so well actually. The Brethren Court intends to release her.
Davy Jones: No! They cannot! The first court promised to imprison her forever. That was our agreement!
Beckett: Your agreement?
Davy Jones: I showed them how to bind her. She could not be trusted. She gave me no choice. We must act before they release her.
Will: You loved her. She’s the one, and then you betrayed her.
Davy Jones: She pretended to love me! She betrayed me!
Will: And after which betrayal did you cut out your heart, I wonder?
Davy Jones [hits Will’s tea cup out of his hand]: Do not test me.
Will: I hadn’t finished that. You will free my father. [to Beckett] And you will guarantee Elizabeth’s safety, along with my own.
Beckett: Your terms are steep Mr. Turner. We will expect fair value in return.
Davy Jones: There is only one price I will accept. Calypso, murdered.
Will: Calypso is aboard the Black Pearl. Jack has sailed the Black Pearl to Shipwreck Cove.
Beckett: And with you no longer aboard her, how do you propose to lead us there?
Will: [holds up Jack’s compass] What is it you want most?
SCENE 14: The Brethren Court
[opens panning over Shipwreck Cove in the air, then to deck of Black Pearl]
Pintel: Look at them all!
Barbossa: There’s not been a gatherin’ like this in our lifetime.
Jack: And I owe them all money.
[cuts to inside courtroom with Barbossa banging a cannonball on the table]
Barbossa: As he who issued summons, I convene this, the fourth Brethren Court. To confirm your lordship and right to be heard, present now your pieces of eight, my fellow cap’ns.
[Ragetti walks around with a bowl and each person puts a piece of junk in it]
Pintel: Those aren’t pieces of eight, they’re just pieces of junk.
Gibbs: Aye, the original plan was to use nine pieces of eight to bind Calypso, but when the first court met, the brethren were to a one, skint broke.
Pintel: So change the name.
Gibbs: To what? ‘Nine Pieces of Whatever We Happened to Have in Our Pockets at the Time’? Oh yes, that sounds very piratey.
Barbossa: Mr. Ragetti, if you will.
Ragetti: I kept it safe for you, just like you said when you gave it to me.
Barbossa: Aye, ya have, but now I need it back.
[whacks Ragetti on the back of the head and his wooden eye pops out and he puts it in the bowl]
Villanueva: Sparrow!
Jack [touches coin dangling from his bandanna]: Might I point out that we are still short one pirate lord, and I’m content as a cucumber to wait until Sao Feng joins us.
Elizabeth [enters]: Sao Feng is dead. He fell to the Flying Dutchman.
Jack: And made you captain? They’re just giving the bloody title away now.
Elizabeth: Listen. Our location has been betrayed. Jones is under the command of Lord Beckett, they’re on their way here.
Jocard: Who is this betrayer?
Barbossa: Not likely anyone among us.
Elizabeth: Where’s Will?
Jack: Not among us.
Barbossa: And it matters not how they found us. The question is, what will we do now that they have?
Elizabeth: We fight!
Mistress Cheng: Shipwreck Cove is a fortress, a well supplied fortress. There is no need to fight if they cannot get to us.
Barbossa: There is a third course. In another age, at this very spot, the first court captured the sea goddess, and bound her in her bones. That was a mistake. Oh, we tamed the seas for ourselves, aye, but opened the door to Beckett and his ilk. Better were the days when mastery of seas came not from bargains struck with eldritch creatures, but from the sweat of a man’s brow and the strength of his back alone. Y’all know this to be true. Gentlemen, ladies. We must free Calypso.
Ammand: Shoot him!
Jocard: Cut out his tongue!
Jack: Shoot him and cut out his tongue, then shoot his tongue. And trim that scraggly beard.
Tai Huang: Sao Feng would have agreed with Barbossa.
Jocard: Calypso was our enemy then, she will be our enemy now.
Chevalle: And it’s not likely her mood’s improved.
Villanueva: I would still agree with Sao Feng, we release Calypso!
Chevalle: You threaten me?
Villanueva: I silence you!
[all hell breaks loose]
Elizabeth: This is madness.
Jack: This is politics.
Elizabeth: Meanwhile our enemies are bearing down upon us.
Barbossa: If they not be here already.
[cuts to shot of Black Pearl in the harbor, then to Tia in the brig. She is listening to the tune her locket is playing, then closes it and the music starts again a couple seconds later and she turns to see Davy walking out of the shadows on the other side of the room]
Tia Dalma: My sweet, you come for me.
Davy Jones: You were expecting me.
Tia Dalma: It has been torture, trapped in this single form. Cut off from the sea, from all that I love, from you.
Davy Jones: Ten years I devoted to the duty you charged to me. Ten years I looked after those who died at sea. And finally, when we could be together again, you weren’t there. Why weren’t you there?
Tia Dalma: Is my nature. Would you love me if I was anything but what I am?
Davy Jones: I do not love you.
Tia Dalma: Many things you were, Davy Jones, but never cruel. You have corrupted your purpose, and so yourself. And hid away what should always have been mine. [Touches him, and his tentacles disappear and he turns into his former human self]
Davy Jones: Calypso.
Tia Dalma: I will be free, and when I am I will give you my heart and we will be together always. If only you had a heart to give. [Takes her hand away and Davy reverts to octopus form] Why did you come?
Davy Jones: And what fate have you planned for your captors?
TiaDalma: The Brethren Court? The last thing they will learn in this life, is how cruel I can be. And what of your fate, Davy Jones?
Davy: My heart will always belong to you. [exits via wall]
[cuts back to courtroom. Barbossa is standing on table and fires gun to silence them]
Barbossa: It was the first court what imprisoned Calypso, and we will be the ones to set her free, and in her gratitude she will see fit to grant us boons.
Jack: Whose boons? Your boons? Utterly deceptive twaddlespeak, says I.
Barbossa: If you have a better alternative, please, share.
Jack: Cuttlefish. Let us not, dear friends, forget our dear friends the cuttlefish. Flippant glorious little sausages. Pen ‘em up together and they’ll devour each other without a second thought. Human nature, isn’t it?...or....or fish nature. [hand on Mistress Cheng’s shoulders] So yes, we could hole up here well provisioned and well armed and half of us would be dead within the month, which seems grim to me any way you slice it. Or, as my learned colleague so naively suggests, we could release Calypso, and we can pray that she will be merciful. I rather doubt it. Can we in fact pretend that she is anything other than a woman scorned, like which fury hell hath no? We cannot. Res ipso loquitur tabula in naufragio (Latin meaning something like “the thing speaks by itself, a plank in a shipwreck” referring to the fact that when all else fails, the plank in a shipwreck can be the only thing that saves you, or as Jack says:...), we are left with but one option. I agree with, and I cannot believe the words are comin’ out of me mouth, Captain Swann. We must fight.
Barbossa: You’ve only ever run from a fight.
Jack: I have not!
Barbossa: You have too!
Jack: Have not!
Barbossa: You have too!
Jack: Have not!
Barbossa: You have too, and you know it!
Jack: Have not, slander and calumny! I have only ever embraced that oldest and noblest of pirate traditions. I submit here and now, that is what we all must do, we must fight... to run away.
Gibbs: Aye!
Barbossa: As per the code, an act of war, and this be exactly that, can only be declared by the pirate king.
Jack: You made that up.
Barbossa: Did I now? I call on Captain Teague, keeper of the code. SeSumbhajee’s assistant: SeSumbhajee proclaims this all to be folly! Hang the code! Who cares... [gets shot]
Capt. Teague: Code is the law. [walks up behind Jack] You’re in my way, boy.
[two old men carry up the code and set it on the table]
Pintel: The code.
Ragetti: As set forth by Morgan and Bartholomew.
[Capt. Teague whistles and the dog comes with the key]
Ragetti: How did...?
Capt. Teague: Sea turtles, mate. [looks at code] Barbossa is right.
Jack: Hang on a minute. [checks the code] It shall be the duty of the king to declare war, parlay with said adversaries... fancy that.
Chevalle: There’s not been a king since the first court, and that’s not likely to change.
Capt. Teague: Not likely.
Elizabeth: Why not?
Gibbs: Because the king is elected by popular vote.
Barbossa: And each pirate only ever votes for hisself.
Jack: I call for a vote.
Ammand: I vote for Ammand, the corsair.
Chevalle: Capitan Chevalle, the penniless French man.
SeSumbhajee’s assistant: SeSumbhajee votes for SeSumbhajee.
Mistress Cheng: Mistress Cheng.
Jocard: Gentleman Jocard.
Elizabeth: Elizabeth Swann.
Barbossa: Barbossa.
Villanueva: Villanueva.
Jack: Elizabeth Swann.
Elizabeth: What?
Jack: I know, curious isn’t it?
Jocard: Why didn’t you vote for me?
[they all start arguing]
Jack: Am I to understand that you lot will not be keeping to the code, then?
[Capt. Teague breaks a guitar string and the room goes silent]
Mistress Cheng: Very well, what say you Captain Swann, king of the Brethren Court?
Elizabeth: Prepare every vessel that floats. At dawn, we’re at war. SeSumbhajee: And so, we shall go to war.
[Barbossa signals Ragetti and he makes off with the pieces of eight. Jack turns to Capt. Teague]
Jack: What? You’ve seen it all, done it all, you survived. That’s the trick, isn’t it? To survive.
Capt. Teague: It’s not just about living forever, Jackie. The trick is, living with yourself, forever.
Jack: How’s mum?
[Teague holds up a shrunken head]
Jack: She looks great.
SCENE 15: Battle of the Maelstrom
[opens on crew on deck of Black Pearl, watching the Endeavour emerge from the mist]
Marty: The enemy’s here! Let’s take her! [the rest of the armada emerges from the fog]
Cotton’s parrot: Abandon ship! Abandon ship!
Jack: Parlay?
[cuts to Jack, Elizabeth, and Barbossa walking up to Beckett, Will, and Davy who is standing in a bucket of water on a sand spit]
Barbossa: You be the cur that led these wolves to our door.
Beckett: Don’t blame Turner, he was merely the tool of your betrayal. If you wish to see its grand architect, look to your left.
[they all look left including Jack who is all the way left]
Jack: My hands are clean in this... figuratively.
Will: My actions were my own and to my own purpose. Jack had nothing to do with it.
Jack: Well spoke, listen to the tool.
Elizabeth: Will, I’ve been aboard the Dutchman, I understand the burden you bear, but I fear that cause is lost.
Will: No cause is lost if there is but one fool left to fight for it.
Beckett: If Turner was not acting on your behalf, then how did he come to give me this? You made a deal with me, Jack, to deliver the pirates, and here they are. Don’t be bashful, step up, claim your reward. [tosses Jack compass]
Davy Jones: Your debt to me is still to be satisfied. One hundred years in service aboard the Dutchman. As a start.
Jack: That debt was paid, mate, with [motions to Elizabeth] help.
Davy Jones: You escaped!
Jack: Technically...
Elizabeth: I propose an exchange. Will leaves with us, and you can take Jack.
Will: Done.
Jack: Undone.
Beckett: Done.
Barbossa: Jack is one of the nine pirate lords, you have no right...
Elizabeth: King.
Jack: As you command. [takes off his hat and bows to Elizabeth]
[Barbossa cuts off Jack’s piece of eight, and Jack the monkey runs over and gets it]
Barbossa: If you be sayin’ something, I might be sayin’ something as well.
Jack: First to the finish, then?
[Jack and Will switch and Jack stands by Davy]
Davy Jones : Do you fear death?
Jack: You have no idea.
Beckett [to Elizabeth]: Advise your brethren, you can fight and all of you will die, or you can not fight in which case only most of you will die.
Elizabeth: You murdered my father.
Beckett: He chose his own fate.
Elizabeth: And you have chosen yours. We will fight, and you will die. [walks off]
Beckett: So be it.
Will: King?
Elizabeth: Of the Brethren Court. Courtesy of Jack.
Will: Maybe he really does know what he’s doing.
[cut to Jack in the brig of the Flying Dutchman talking to two Jack replicas]
Jack replica: Bravo! You’ve successfully arrived aboard the Flying Dutchman as per the overall scheme.
Jack replica: Oh, yes, chapeau, mate. Except for this little sojourn in the brig, everything’s like clockwork.
Jack: Go away!
Jack replica: Or back to the locker?
Jack replica: But without you, Jackie?
Jack replica [emerges from wall and takes out his brain]: Stab the heart, and live forever, as captain of the Flying Dutchman. Then again, if you’re in the brig, who’s to stab the heart?
Jack replica: It does put immortality a bit out of reach. Jack replica: [pulls peanut from real Jack’s hair]: Peanut [eats it]
[cuts to deck of Black Pearl]
Elizabeth: We’ll use the Black Pearl as a flagship to lead the attack.
Barbossa: Will we, now? [Pintel and Ragetti bring Tia, bound in ropes, up from below]
Pintel: All right, Mrs. Fish, c’mon.
Will: Barbossa, you can’t release her.
Elizabeth: We have to give Jack a chance.
Barbossa: Apologies, your majesty! Too long me fate has not been in my own hands - no longer. [pulls Sao Feng’s necklace off Elizabeth and drops it in bowl with other pieces of eight]
[cuts to deck of Endeavour]
Beckett: The enemy has opted for oblivion. Ready the fleet.
Officer: To your stations!
[back to Black Pearl]
Gibbs: Be there some sort of rite or incantation?
Barbossa: Aye. Items to be brought together... done. Items to be burned. And someone must speak the words, “Calypso, I release you from your human bonds.”
Pintel: That’s it?
Barbossa: It was said it must be spoken as if to a lover.
[laughing]
Barbossa: Calypso, I release you from your human bonds.
[he attempts to light the items but nothing happens]
Pintel: Is that it?
Ragetti: You didn’t say it right. You have to say it right. Calypso, I release you from your human bonds.
[the bowl levitates and the items catch fire]
Will: Tia Dalma. Calypso. [bowl falls] When the Brethren Court first imprisoned you, who was it that told them how? Who was it that betrayed you?
Tia Dalma: Name him!
Will: Davy Jones.
[Tia starts to blow up as if attached to an air hose]
Pintel: This is it! This is it!
[Tia grows to huge size]
Barbossa: Calypso, I come before you as a servant, humble and contrite. I have fulfilled me vow, and now ask your favor. Spare meself, me ship, me crew, but unleash your fury upon those who dare pretend themselves your masters, or mine.
[Tia roars ‘My fishes’ and then some unintelligible words. She turns into a bunch of crabs that fall overboard]
Will: Was that it?
Pintel: Why, she’s no help at all. What now?
Barbossa: Nothing. Our final hope has failed us.
Elizabeth: It’s not over.
Will: There’s still a fight to be had.
Gibbs: We’ve an armada against us, and with the Dutchman, there’s no chance.
Elizabeth: Only a fool’s chance.
Barbossa: Revenge won’t bring your father back, Miss Swann, and it’s not something I’m intending to die for.
Elizabeth: You’re right. Then what shall we die for? [to crew] You will listen to me. Listen! The brethren will still be looking here to us, to the Black Pearl to lead, and what will they see? Frightened bilge rats aboard a derelict ship? No! They will see free men, and freedom. And what the enemy will see is the flash of our cannons, they will hear the ring of our swords and they will know what we can do! By the sweat of our brows, and the strength of our backs, and the courage of our hearts... gentlemen, hoist the colors!
Will: Hoist the colors.
Ragetti: Hoist the colors!
Pintel: Hoist the colors!
Gibbs: The wind’s on our side, boys, that’s all we need!
Elizabeth: Hoist the colors!!!
[all the pirate ships raise their flags]
[cut to deck of Endeavour]
Officer: We have a favorable wind, sir.
Beckett [drinking tea]: Oh, so we do. Signal Jones to give no quarter. That should brighten his day. [Officer signals; cut to deck of Flying Dutchman]
Mercer: To arms! We give no quarter!
Davy Jones [looks up at brewing storm]: Calypso. [yells]
[cut back to deck of Black Pearl]
Pintel: Have you noticed, on top of everything, it’s raining!?!
Ragetti: That’s a bad sign.
Gibbs: Man the capstan... keep that powder dry! [looks to port and sees humongous whirlpool forming] Maelstrom!
Elizabeth: Captain Barbossa, we need you at the helm.
Barbossa: Aye, that be true! [takes wheel] ...brace up the yards, ya cockeyed deck apes... dyin’ is a day worth livin’ for!
[cuts back to deck of Flying Dutchman]
Mercer: Veer out!
Davy Jones: She’ll not harm us. Full bore and into the abyss!
Mercer: Are you mad?
Davy Jones: Ha! You afraid to get wet?
[back to Pearl]
Will: On our stern and gaining!
Barbossa: More speed! Haul your wind and hold your water!
[back to Flying Dutchman]
Davy: Bow cannons!
[back to Pearl]
Will: Take her out or she’ll overbear us!
Barbossa: Nay, farther in! We’ll cut across to faster waters!
Elizabeth: Prepare to broadside!
Gibbs: Captain the guns!
Will: At the ready!
[cut back to Jack in brig of Dutchman. He and Jack replicas are pacing around the cell.]
Jack: Think like the whelp... think like the whelp... think like the whelp... half barrel hinges... leverage! [takes large piece of splintered wood and pries door free] Wish me luck, boys, I’ll need it. [runs off]
Jack replica: I miss him already.
Jack replica: He is quite charming, isn’t he?
Jack replica in wall: Nobody move! I dropped me brain.
[cut back to deck of Pearl]
Gibbs: Batten down the hatches! Stick to your guns! Sight the flash!
[cut to Mercer, who yells something unintelligible; back to Gibbs]
Gibbs [to Pintel and Ragetti]: Hold it! Wait till we’re more to port!
Barbossa: Fire!
Elizabeth: Fire!
Will: Fire!
[Flying Dutchman]
Davy Jones: Fire!
[Pearl]
Barbossa: It’s too late to alter course now, mateys! Ha ha ha ha!
[cut to Davy’s cabin, where Murtogg and Mullroy are guarding the chest. Enter Jack.]
Mullroy: Hold it or I’ll shoot! [cannonball blasts through cabin]
Jack: Good one. I just came to get me effects. Admirable though it may be, why are you here when you could be elsewhere?
Murtogg: Someone has to stay and guard the chest. [they point their cannons back at chest]
Mullroy: There is no question, there has been a breakdown in military discipline aboard this vessel.
Murtogg: I blame the fish people.
Mullroy: Oh! So fish people, by dint of being fish people, automatically aren’t as disciplined as non-fish people?
Murtogg: Seems contributory, is all I’m suggesting.
Mullroy:It is true, if there were no fish people, there would be no need to guard the chest.
Murtogg: And if there were no chest, we wouldn’t need to be here to guard it. [They look and the chest and Jack are gone.]
[cut to deck of Flying Dutchman]
Mercer: Prepare to board! Davy Jones [sees cannonball coming]: Cover! [grabs Mercer]
[Cannonball blasts a bunch of soldiers. Davy kills Mercer via tentacular strangulation, then takes the key to the chest. Davy goes downstairs towards his cabin just as Jack is emerging with the chest.]
Davy Jones: Lookie here, boys. A lost bird. A lost bird that never learned to fly.
Jack: To my great regret. But, never to late to learn, eh? [whacks rope and goes flying up onto top of one of Dutchman’s sails. Davy emerges from the mast.]
Davy Jones: The chest! Hand it over!
Jack: I can set you free, mate.
Davy: My freedom was forfeit long ago. Aaaahhh! [they swordfight]
[shot of sailors swinging between ships across maelstrom]
[deck of Black Pearl]
Will: Elizabeth! Elizabeth! Will you marry me?
Elizabeth: I don’t think now is the best time!
Will: Now may be the only time! I love you. I’ve made my choice. What’s yours?
Elizabeth: Barbossa! Marry us!
Barbossa: I’m a little busy at the moment!
Will: Barbossa! Now!
Barbossa: Fine then! [gets up on table] Dearly beloved, we be gathered here today...
Will: Elizabeth Swann, do you take me to be your husband?
Elizabeth: I do.
Will: Great!
Elizabeth: Will Turner, do you take me...to be your wife, in sickness and in health, with health being the less likely?
Will: I do.
Barbossa: As captain, I now pronounce you... you may kiss... you may kiss... just kiss! [Will and Elizabeth kiss as Pintel, Ragetti, and Jack the monkey look on]
[cut back to deck of Flying Dutchman, where Murtogg and Mullroy are emerging from Davy’s cabin]
Murtogg [to Mullroy]: Just leave it!
[cut to Jack and Davy fighting up in the rigging]
Davy Jones: You can do nothing without the key!
Jack: I already have the key.
Davy Jones [shows key]: No, you don’t.
Jack: Oh, that key. [cuts off Davy’s tentacle that is holding key, and it falls down below]
Davy Jones: Aaaaahhh! [breaks Jack’s sword with his crab claw] [Boat lurches, Jack falls and catches bottom of chest, Davy catches top of chest. Davy gives chest a heave and Jack goes flying, is caught by Clanker swinging by on a rope.]
Jack [to Clanker]: Oy! My pistol. [hits Clanker with pistol, then shoots chest out of Davy’s hand, it falls on Hadras’ head and he falls overboard] [Will swings over from Pearl to Dutchman, sees chest and picks it up]
Maccus: Turner!
[Pintel and Ragetti shoot Jack the monkey out of the cannon and a flaming undead monkey hits Maccus in the face, and he falls overboard.]
Will: Thank you, Jack. [Bootstrap attacks Will] It’s me! It’s Will, your son! [Bootstrap doesn’t recognize him, continues to attack.]
[Jack drops to deck in front of Davy, pulls sword on him but it is broken. He runs behind Kraken-summoning wheel and he and Davy go back and forth a few times, then Davy walks into center of wheel. Jack spins it like a merry-go-round, Davy roars and shakes his tentacles and Jack yells and runs away.]
[Murtogg and Mullroy try to swing on rope over to Black Pearl but go splat on the side]
Gibbs [to Elizabeth]: Go! [she swings over to Dutchman]
[Davy hits Jack and he falls]
Davy Jones [to Elizabeth]: All right, then! You’ll see no mercy from me!
Elizabeth: That’s why I brought this! [pulls sword]
Will [to Bootstrap]: I’m not going to kill you. I made you a promise. [stabs Bootstrap’s knife into railing]
[Davy goes after Elizabeth so Will stabs him with his sword.]
Davy Jones: Mister, did you forget? I’m a heartless wretch. [kicks Will down, then looks back and forth between Will and Elizabeth] Ahhh, love. A dreadful bond. And yet so easily severed. Tell me, William Turner, do you fear death?
Jack: Do you? [holding Davy’s heart, which is bleeding] Heady tonic, holding life and death in the palm of one’s hand.
Davy Jones: You’re a cruel man, Jack Sparrow.
Jack: Cruel is a matter of perspective.
Davy Jones: Is it, now? [spins around and stabs Will in the chest with his sword, then laughs]
Elizabeth [runs over to Will]: Will! Will! Look at me! Stay with me! You’re all right! [Jack looks at Davy’s heart and hesitates]
Bootstrap: William! My son! [fights with Davy]
Elizabeth: Will! Will! Look at me! Look at me!
Davy Jones [to Bootstrap]: You will not forestall my judgment! [shows his heart stabbed through with Jack’s broken sword. Davy’s tentacles twitch, he looks around to see Will holding Jack’s broken sword with Jack’s help.] Calypso! [Davy falls overboard into maelstrom]
[deck of Black Pearl]
Barbossa: She’s takin’ us down! Make quick, or it’s the locker for us all!
[Flying Dutchman]
Elizabeth [as Will dies]: No! no! no! no!
Davy’s crew: Part of the crew, part of the ship...
Elizabeth: Don’t leave me! I won’t leave you! [Jack grabs her]
[shows empty inside of Davy’s chest]
Bootstrap: The Dutchman must have a captain. [raises knife]
[Jack, Elizabeth, and Jack the monkey parachute over to near the Pearl. The Dutchman is swallowed up by the maelstrom. Jack and Elizabeth climb aboard the Pearl.]
Gibbs: Jack, the armada’s still out there, the Endeavour’s coming up hard to starboard, and I think it’s time we embraced that oldest and noblest of pirate traditions...
Jack: Never actually been one for tradition... Close haul her. Luff the sails and lay on iron!
Barbossa: Belay that, or we’ll be a sitting duck.
Jack: Belay that ‘belay that.’
Gibbs [tries to interrupt]: But captain...
Jack: Belay!
Gibbs: The armada...
Jack: Belay!
Gibbs: The Endeavour...
Jack: Belay!
Gibbs: But we...
Jack: Stow. Shut it! [Gibbs shuts up]
[cut to deck of Endeavour]
Officer: What is he waiting for?
Beckett: He actually expects us to honor our agreement. Nothing personal, Jack... it’s just good business.
[Dutchman surfaces]
Beckett: Ahh, she survived.
[cut to deck of Dutchman, where sea creatures are dropping off crewmen and they are turning back into humans.]
Will: Ready on the guns!
[Pearl]
Jack: Full canvas!
Barbossa: Aye, full canvas!
[Dutchman and Pearl sail in tandem on either side of Endeavour]
Officer: Orders, sir? Sir?
[Pearl]
Gibbs: Cap’n?
Jack: Fire!
Gibbs: Fire!
[Dutchman]
Will: Fire!
[Pearl]
Elizabeth: Fire all! [Dutchman and Pearl begin to blast Endeavour to smithereens]
[Endeavour]
Officer: Orders?! Orders, sir?! Sir, what do you command?
Beckett [stunned and detached]: It’s just good business...
Officer: Abandon ship!
[Beckett descends stairs, Endeavour explodes as powder magazine ignites, Beckett’s body falls into water on top of East India Co. flag]
Marty: They’re turning away! [cheers]
Cotton’s parrot: Wind in your sails!
Mullroy: Shiver me timbers! Arrrrrhh! [Pintel shrugs]
Jack: Mr. Gibbs, you may throw my hat if you like.
Gibbs: Aye aye captain! [tosses Jack’s hat] Hooray!
Jack: Now go and get it.
[cut to deck of Flying Dutchman where Will is gazing wistfully off at Elizabeth on the Black Pearl]
Bootstrap: Orders, sir.
Will: You’re no longer bound to the Dutchman. You’re free.
Bootstrap: Aye, that’s a fine thing, but, by my reckoning, I still have a debt that has to be paid... if you’ll have me.
Will: On the wheel, then, Mr. Turner.
Bootstrap: Aye, Captain Turner. [Will still gazes longingly at Elizabeth] This ship has a purpose again, and where we are bound, she cannot come. One day ashore, ten years at sea. It’s a steep price for what’s been done.
Will: Depends on the one day.
SCENE 16: Farewell
[cut to deck of Black Pearl, where Elizabeth is preparing to leave]
Gibbs: Your chariot awaits, your highness. The oars are inside.
Barbossa: Mrs. Turner.
Pintel: Goodbye, Poppet.
Elizabeth [to Jack]: Jack. It would never have worked out between us.
Jack: Keep telling yourself that, darlin’. [Elizabeth moves to kiss him and he holds up his hands to stop her] Once was quite enough.
Elizabeth: Thank you.
[cut to beach where Will is preparing to leave after his one day ashore]
Will: I’m gonna need the other one. [Elizabeth presents her leg with his boot on it and he takes it off.] It’s nearly sunset. [Hands her the chest] It’s always belonged to you. Will you keep it safe?
Elizabeth: Yes, yes. [Will walks toward shore] Will! [she runs after him and they embrace]
Will: Keep a weather eye on the horizon. [Flying Dutchman sails off into the sunset and disappears in green flash]
[cut to Tortuga docks]
Jack: Granted, it tends to list to port and has on occasion been known to frighten young women, but I guarantee you will not be disappointed.
Giselle: Is that it?
Scarlett: The Black Pearl?
Giselle: It’s not very big.
Jack: That, love, is a dinghy. My vessel is magnificent, and fierce, and huge-ish, and... gone. Why is it gone?
Giselle: Is that it there?
Jack: Yes, there it is. Why is it there? It’s much larger up close.
Scarlett: Jack, you promised to give us a ride.
Giselle: I was to get the first ride!
Scarlett: You? [they begin to shove each other]
Jack [pours beer on Gibbs, who is sleeping on the dock with a burlap Teddy bear]: Mr. Gibbs, any particular reason why my ship is gone?
Gibbs: The ship? We’re on the ship. [wakes] Jack, the ship is gone!
Jack: Really? [turns to Scarlett and Giselle who are still fighting] Ladies, will you please shut it! Listen to me. [to Giselle] Yes, I lied to you. [to Scarlett] No, I don’t love you. [to Giselle] Of course it makes you look fat. [to Scarlett] I’ve never been to Brussels. [to Giselle] It is pronounced egregious. [to Scarlett] And by the way, no, I’ve never actually met Pisaro, but I love his pies. And all of this pales into utter insignificance in light of the fact that my ship is once again, gone, savvy?
[Giselle and Scarlett slap Jack, then Jack slaps Gibbs, who gives a look of resignation.]
Gibbs: Take what you can.
Jack: Give nothing back.
Gibbs [to Giselle and Scarlett]: Ladies, what do you know of sea turtles?
[cuts to deck of Black Pearl where Barbossa is feeding a peanut to Jack the monkey]
Barbossa: Ooh, that’s a good boy, you’re Daddy’s boy, yes you are.
Pintel: Sir, some of the men don’t feel entirely settled about leaving Captain Jack behind...
Ragetti [to Pintel]: ...again...
Pintel: ...again.
Barbossa: Is that so?
Pintel: It would make us feel a whole lot better concerning our fortunes if we could see that item you mentioned...
Marty: On the charts.
Murtogg and Mullroy: Aye.
Pintel: With our own eyes.
Ragetti: To ease our burden of guilt, so to speak.
Barbossa [unrolling chart]: Aye. Feast your eyes on this, mateys. There’s more than one way to live forever. Gents, I give you the Fountain of Youth! [crew gets confused looks on their faces and Barbossa holds up chart, which is missing center piece.] Sparrow!
[cuts to Jack in dinghy raising his own pirate flag with a bandanna’d skull and a red flying sparrow, unrolling center of chart] Jack [singing]: ....a pirate’s life for me (or maybe "the Pearl is not for me?"). [hums] Drink up, me hearties, yo ho. We’re devils and black sheep, and really bad eggs... [opens compass and it points behind him. He reaches for bottle of rum and uncorks it, then compass points ahead.] Drink up, me hearties, yo ho. [sails off into sunset]
SCENE 17: Ten years later
[Elizabeth and a little boy are waiting on the island for Will to return for shore leave]
Boy [singing]: Yo ho, yo ho, a pirate’s life for me. We pillage, we plunder, we rifle, we loot, drink up, me hearties, yo ho. We kidnap and ravage and don’t give a hoot, drink up, me hearties, yo ho. Yo ho, yo ho, a pirate’s life for me...
[Will comes sailing up.]
END
